Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout, everybody.
If we haven't had a chance to meet before, I'm Rachel, I lead Customer Marketing at Posit.
And I am going to keep adding this in here because I learned from a friend at the Hangout
that it's helpful for me to actually let people know that Posit is the company formally called
RStudio. So we build enterprise solutions and open source tools for people who do data
science with both R and Python. And Libby, do you want to introduce yourself?
Sure, I'm Libby. I am helping out Rachel with the community stuff here with the Hangout,
helping host. And I also work with Posit Academy to help people learn R and Python to do better
work with data in their jobs. So happy to have you all joining us today. The Hangout is our open
space to hear what's going on in the world of data across all different industries to chat about data
science leadership and connect with others who are facing similar things as you. So we get together
here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching this as a recording on
YouTube in the future and you want to join us live, there will be details to add it to your
own calendar below. If you ever have any issues adding it or connecting in with us, please let
me know. Don't hesitate to reach out on LinkedIn or email me. I'll put my email somewhere where
someone can see it too. I realize I can't put it in the chat if I'm talking about YouTube.
But thank you so much to those who have helped make this the friendly and welcoming space that
it is today. And we're all dedicated to keeping it that way. So if you ever have feedback about
your experience that you'd like to share with me anonymously, good and bad, or maybe suggestions
for topics to dive deeper on, I'm going to share a Google form with you in the chat here.
And I would love to hear your feedback there. And as mentioned, you can always reach out
directly on LinkedIn as well. Yes, absolutely. We love hearing from you. And we love hearing
about your experiences here in the Hangout and all of your questions. This is a discussion that's
driven by the audience, right? By us as a community. No matter your years of experience,
your title, your industry, what language you work in, we want to hear from you. And I really
encourage you to connect with others in the chat, which means introduce yourself briefly, say hi,
what's your role? Where are you based? What do you like to do for fun? And definitely share your
LinkedIn link or your website link because we want to be able to find each other and stay connected
after this hour leaves, or after this hour finishes, I should say, because it goes by
really quickly. There's three ways to jump in and ask questions today. So you can
raise your hand in the Zoom chat, we can call on you. You can put your question in the Zoom chat.
And if you can't answer it, or if you can't ask if you like your mic is not working, or you're
somewhere really loud, you can put an asterisk next to it, we'll ask it for you. And then there's
also a Slido link that Isabella just put in the chat. And that's where you can ask questions
anonymously, which is totally fine as well. Before we get in and do an introduction for
our featured leader, I wanted to make sure we shared a recent blog post that Libby had written
last week and published, which shares career advice that has been shared here in the Hangout.
And Libby, do you want to share a little bit more about that?
Yeah, I just put it in the chat. I'm really excited to be able to sort of amplify the
voices that we have on the Hangout, because I feel like all of our guests and our participants
and our community members are so brilliant and smart and amazing. And there's so much wisdom
trapped in these episodes that people attend live or like are up on YouTube, and I really want to
share them with the world. So this is the first one. It's pieces of career advice that really
resonated with me. I hope that they will resonate with you too. And I will continue to do this,
share this wisdom and keep going. If there's something that you would like to
have a blog post made about, let me know. Let me know if you're interested in something.
And I'd also really love to know, put it in the chat or ping me on LinkedIn or something. If
there's ever been a piece of advice or something you've heard on a Hangout that's really stuck with
you, I would really love to know about it. Thank you. Well, with all that, thank you again for
joining us today. I'm so excited to be joined by our co-host, our other co-host Stanislav Seltzer,
VP of Enterprise Architecture and AI Infrastructure at State Street Global Advisors.
And Stanislav, I'd love to have you introduce yourself and share a little bit about your
role to get us started, but also something that you like to do outside of work for fun.
Yeah, so my name is Stanislav Seltzer. So I work at SSGA, that's a division of State Street.
And I lead a group that focuses on infrastructure and AI and data science. So our primary,
we don't do data science ourselves, but our primary users are data scientists.
Or economists, financial engineers, whatever you want to call them. So it's a variety of people
with different backgrounds who are really interested in solving problems of economics
and finance and predictive analytics. So I'm there just to really help them facilitate doing their
job and make transformation from ideas to actual operations smooth. Well, outside of my job,
I'm really interested in the ping-pong. I am crazy about ping-pong. I just won a company tournament
in ping-pong and I play in a club in the ping-pong tournaments. And I also do
triathlon as well in my spare time. So kind of like split my time back and forth between
triathlon and ping-pong. A really good exercise, keep me in shape and challenged.
I love that. I thought you were going to tell us about biking. So I'm excited to learn more
about ping-pong. Yeah, biking is a part of triathlon. So I did a couple of local triathlons
in Boston, three times already. And I did some mountain biking in California.
So that was in San Francisco. That was very exciting and challenging.
But yeah, I'd be happy to share more details if people are interested.
That was a heck of a trip going to San Francisco, Marine Headlands, if you've never been there.
Thank you. So Stanislav, a lot of times in the Data Science Hangout conversations come up about
how do we ask for approval for new tools and how do we approach our IT organization? And I think
it's really exciting to have you on the call to be able to share the experience from that side
of the house as well. And when we were talking before, you shared with me the company is not
the company is not going to invest in a tool just because a bunch of people like it.
So I'm wondering what have you found most helpful when pushing an idea or new technology forward?
And what advice could you give to us? So I think usually in organizations,
like when we see somebody like doing startup, right? So you put together a business plan
and you put together a technical prototype, right? So there's two pieces together,
show your idea in action, and they also show what's it's worth in the future.
So in the company, it works in a very similar way. So you have internal decision-making
teams, which kind of function like, in my opinion, like a VC. So you need to think about
the presentation, like non-technical presentation and technical. So
ideally you prototype something and make it an example that shows what the capabilities are.
I think if you merely propose something, that's really not sufficient. So like,
um, essentially when you're looking to get something into organization, you need to find
somebody who really feels this is necessary. And the person is driving the company principal
business. So like say in case of financial companies, that would be a financial engineer.
If you go to any other company, like pharmaceutical, pharmaceutical engineers. So they really need to
be your peer partner to help you push the technology forward. Um, and I think that's
how we got all the adoption of all the new technologies in the bank. We are always partner
with somebody, and it's not easy actually to find people. So you need to have some digging
and sales and marketing on your own to actually understand what people are doing and how they go
about the jobs, where the point points are. So, uh, just merely approaching, you know,
um, CEO, CTO was the idea. It doesn't really work. So oftentimes it's best to talk to your managers,
to peers and, and prototype, even on your personal PC, even outside the company,
just to show us that you tried it yourself and you, you, you get, you get some
understanding of technology as somebody who's proposing it.
Yeah, that, that really resonated to me when we were chatting earlier, when you said
companies work like a VC. And so when you're bringing in this new idea,
they're going to be looking at what's the least risk and maximum value for them.
You're not the only one who's bringing the ideas, right? So, uh, it's like, okay,
if you think of yourself, right, you're an investor, right? You can invest into, you know,
there's so many attractive options you can, you can do, right? So you can invest into a risky
enterprise, or you can buy, you know, uh, us government bonds, or you can buy,
you know, uh, index, uh, SAP 500 index stock. Um, so you have so many ideas that have different,
uh, you know, risk characteristics to them. So as an investor, right, you put yourself into
that position. Um, you, you have options and you're going to consider this option when
waiting something, right? And you need to become, I think the whole premise of finance is that you
need to be compensated for the risk, right? So when you're proposing something, people who are
going to fund you are going to think about the risk and they're going to say, okay, what I'm
going to get in exchange for the risk. And that is a question that you need to be ready to answer,
you know. Absolutely. So I think for this group here to learn a little bit more about some of
the work that your team does, it might be helpful. Could you tell us a little bit about
the ways that your team uses Posit, but also Shiny on the team? So, um, we use a variety of tools. So
I think, uh, the Posit was a dominant force, um, and still is, uh, for our data scientists. So, um,
I think, um, uh, it was a main language for, uh, many, uh, engineers are coming out of college
with graduate degrees in finance and economics. Um, and so most of the people that we work with
would be familiar with that, uh, with our method libraries and methodologists related to the, um,
financial modeling. So the R was, was very widely adopted. And so we use Posit as a, as a tool, um,
primarily, first of all, because it has a very nice debugger built in, um, the UI was integrated
with Git, which is important for IT processes. Um, and, uh, you know, it has a nice browser and
ability to build packages and all this kind of stuff. So that's was there. So now we're a little
bit expanding. So I think, um, we're looking at the market, market trends. So, um, Python is
really dominating the data science market. So, uh, we're shifting towards expanding tools. So,
um, uh, Visual Studio is our second now second main, uh, development tool,
um, alongside with Jupyter notebooks. Um, the Posit is still there. So Posit was there,
will be there. So we use Shiny R, um, as a library where users can really easy design
their own applications. So that has, um, uh, appeal because IT doesn't have to be involved
in developing application. So somebody who's really doesn't know that much about programming
Shiny R can relatively easy put together a relatively sophisticated application.
Um, not to mention that you can use nowadays, um, LLMs to actually generate application,
the whole Shiny R application and deploy it on your PC and show to somebody really quickly.
So, um, there's a little bit of appeal. So Shiny, Shiny, there's a Shiny Python now too.
So we're looking into that. Um, and, uh, the good thing about Shiny is that
somebody who really doesn't, like I said, really is not a soft engineer,
professional soft engineer can not only develop application, but you can actually,
if you buy enterprise version of Posit, you can easily upgrade to
a things which are required by IT standards, like single sign-on,
authentication, authorization, all the integration with the corporate security and so on. So that's,
um, that's a big, uh, big thing. So automation of, um, non-technical users, um, you know,
software engineering processes, right? So still non-technical users have to be able to show
what they want to do, right? So whether they're using Excel or they're using Posit or whatever,
um, they're just like us, like IT. So they have to demonstrate, um,
the ideas on a small scale, right? Before it goes on a big scale.
Absolutely. And, and so, I know we, we talked before a little bit about how Shiny gives people
the freedom to experiment and how you're not allowing people that freedom, it might stifle
their creativity, but it's like, how do you inspire creativity across the organization?
Well, I think there's multiple aspects to that. So, um, I think, uh, essentially the long-term
goal for us is to, um, kind of, you know, um, I wouldn't say totally minimize the role of IT,
but maybe kind of make it easier and easier for people to kind of dream up things and, you know,
and describe them in English and, uh, transform them to, to applications as quickly as possible.
Um, so, um, I think we, we are an investment bank, so, um, investment banks, um,
very, very much research oriented. So that means we're producing research papers, we're producing
results that we publish and, and this research papers eventually transform into mutual funds
and other financial products that we deliver to market every year. So the speeding up the process
from idea to, um, to the product, that's what we're trying to do. And basically being able to
let people test the stuff, um, in a relatively short time, that's what the ultimate goal is.
So, you know, if somebody comes up with a strategy, um, they should be able to validate
that strategy, you know, quickly and as cheaply as possible. So that's, that's our goal is to,
you know, everybody has a budget. So if you strive to do things cheaply, economically and
efficiently, that allows more people to try things and, uh, you know, try more ideas and more people
just generally experiment with technologies. Um, so the data science market is very, you know,
very agile. And so for bank, you also have to, to stay abreast of it, all the technologies and,
um, constantly, constantly evaluate what's happening in the market.
So the bank stays on the cutting edge of the technology itself.
Definitely. Libby, I see you had a question. Do you want to jump in here next?
I would love to, because I feel like I need, um, a more simple explanation of the types of
problems that you solve so I can understand exactly what you do. So explain it to me like
I'm a 10 year old. I would love to know what type of problems you solve or what type of problems
your end users solve if you are like building tools.
So, uh, we have, um, I think half of the workforce of the bank is researchers.
Okay. Researchers in economics and finance. So the problems that they're solving,
pretty much every researcher is a portfolio manager or researcher in economics and they
work with portfolio manager. So what they do is they run mutual funds, they run hedge funds,
they run ETF products. So, and the goal for them, right, is to be able to achieve performance,
right? So you sell somebody ETF, that ETF shows reasonably good performance,
right? So achieving performance means you predicting the future.
Okay. So if you're running mutual funds, you have, you're constrained by the, you know,
investors are going to tell you what the risk characteristics are. And, um, there's a, you know,
profile, how long they're willing to invest. And it's your job to think about what's going to happen
in the future and where to invest money into. So, so forecasting the future is actually
incredibly difficult because, uh, you don't know so many things, right? So you may be observing
some things like observing prices on, uh, you know, stock exchange, but you don't know what's
driving, what's underlying forces. So that's, that's a challenge, a really fundamental challenge.
And it's actually, you know, for every market, you know, whether you use, you know,
for every market, you know, whether you invest in stocks or you invest in bonds or you invest
in cash or you invest in ETF, that challenge is different because the forces are driving too,
but overall things are interrelated, right? So if there is a, uh, some geopolitical event
that's going to impact everything at different races. So usually you see things happening
quickly on macroeconomic level, right? So interest rates go up. Why is the interest rate go?
My interest rates go down. So, right. So what we're thinking about why is this thing's happening
and where is this is going to, you know, turn around or change direction. So it's a long-term
planning, right? So think about long-term planning, long-term forecasting. You're not
investing for like, we're not real time trading shop. So I think predicting future, uh, the
faster you go, right? So maybe, maybe you'll sing what you're going to do tomorrow, but predicting
future five years, 10 years, 15 years. And for us, it's predicting technology where the technology
is going to go. And, you know, is that a period of time? Uh, so somebody is going to like our
partners is going to think about where's the finance part is going to turn around. How's the
market is going to react to those things. And, um, we're saying what technology we need to pick.
Right. So think of it. Once you pick something, you cannot change it easily because it's just going
to be, you know, lots of people is going to use it and it will be next to impossible to change it.
So you need to be really, really careful and thoughtful. And, um, when you're picking, um,
underlying underlying technology for researchers to use, right. So maybe picking up a modeling
language, I think that's, that's one actually choice who is a big impact, right? So there's so
many languages and you have Julia, you have Python, you have Rust, um, you know, so you're
making a trade of decision, right? So somebody comes in and they don't know programming. They're
not soft engines. The economists, the financial experts, maybe they have a degree in, you know,
philosophy. I don't know. So it's, uh, uh, in dealing with non-technical, uh, Salesforce
and kind of, um, be trying to pick a technology for them that will be very genetic, uh,
and will be supported. So that's one of the things we think about.
What is the best strategy, right? So if you, uh, buy proprietary tool, right. You use commercial
proprietary tool, company goes out of business. What's going to happen to us? Who's going to
support, right? So for that reason, we generally, I think last maybe probably 15 years, we've been
slowly, slowly using open source tools with commercial support. So POSIT perfectly fits
into that category. So they support Python R, they provide R3, and they give us commercial support.
Which is what we need when things go, you know, sometimes things go wrong. Um,
and so that's what you need was a bigger organization with commercial support.
Um, and, uh, what we noticed that if you buy really good proprietary stuff,
eventually it dies. End of life is inevitable, not just for people, but also for software.
Um, and it's actually happens much faster than, than you really think about it.
And so what we, the goal for us is to predict when this is going to happen,
how quickly, and what can we do to defend ourselves? So I think that's, if you're asking,
what's the challenge for us, is that, uh, picking up the tools and, um, figuring out
how long is it going to last, you know? Thank you. I really appreciate that
explanation too, and thinking about prep proprietary tools or so open source as well.
Um, I, I realized I see everybody's comments in the chat and everybody introducing themselves.
And I realized something I forgot to add in the beginning. If anyone is, is hiring for roles
across your team, feel free to share those in the chat as well.
I just want to make sure everyone knows that the chat can be used for that purpose as well.
Thank you. Um, so Stanislav, something that we were talking about in the very beginning
when Libby was mentioning her career advice posts, as we love to learn from
different leaders who join us, what's a memorable piece of career advice that
you've received or given that you'd like to share with us?
Um, I think like, if you're really looking for career, I think the first thing is, is,
um, building networking. So being social and connecting with as many people as you can.
That's, that's my advice. Number one. So presenting when, when you can, you know,
going to meetups and presenting and, and being a good speaker.
Um, that's number one. And number two, I would say is that helping other,
other people to succeed in their jobs, uh, will also help you to succeed as, um,
as an influencer and, um, motivator. So inside the SGA, we're very big on that. So like,
we, we mentor people and the senior executive mentor us. So I think that's,
uh, very powerful, great, very powerful cohesion within the company. Um, and second, I would say
collaborating with people, I think in 21st century, I think like, if you think like,
like look at nineties and eighties when U.S. was outsourcing, uh, you know, a lot of, uh,
work, uh, overseas. And, um, I think in, in the, you know, 21st century, it doesn't really matter
where you are. So what matters is, you know, collaboration and, uh, your skills. So that's,
I think is going to change. Obviously AI has some impact to that, but I don't think as much
as, as really, um, you know, focusing on collaboration with different people
and different groups is kind of going to teach you different skills. Um,
so that's, that's my, my take on, um, you know, career advice. So, uh, some people, you know,
make a career changes pretty often. Uh, and some people make career changes, I would say,
not so often. Uh, so if you make career changes often, like I would say every two, three years,
the problem is you don't get to focus on big things. You focus on relatively small things.
So to make big, big changes happen in an organization, to make impact,
you really need time to, you know, to sell your ideas to organization, to deliver them,
um, to train people and maintain and support after. So, you know, that's, um, a general trade-off
that, that, you know, I would say you need to think about it when you, when you make, um,
frequent career changes, but building a network, I think probably most of our,
obviously making a skill. So you, for me personally, uh, I like to focus on a
small set of skills, but really deep. So Python, uh, uh, Rust, uh, AI, PyTorch.
So that's machine learning. So, so the areas that I'm focusing, I'm trying to go really,
really deep, not to go too wide, just, just focus on, on things that, um,
I really can, can, uh, be an expert on. Right. So if somebody asking me a question about the ML
model, I am able to read it, diagnose it and correct it, um, relatively, you know,
short amount of time. Somebody asked me about R code, why it's not working. I'm able to debug it
and, uh, figure out what is wrong with it. So that's, to me, I think you really need to have
very disciplined focus on what you, what, what you're doing. Um, and it needs to be
kind of sorts of deep, deep and very hard. Um, I mean, and I did, I'm actually a professor of a
social professor of computer science at BU as well. So to me, learning is kind of continuous
process. So you need to think about that. Um, not only because technology changes for people who
are, for us who are in technology, uh, technology is changing. So you have to be continuously
learning, but also for yourself, just, just generally challenge yourself, um, to, to different
things. Uh, because you, you know, you're in the market for one time, like 30 years, 25 years.
Thank you. I, I see there was a, a Slido question someone had asked anonymously, and it was when
you were talking about forecasting for when would go obsolete. And so they said interesting
forecasting problem. What are some factors you use to forecast when a tool would go obsolete?
So the first thing I think is a red flag for us
is when people stop committing to, to the tool. And when you, let's say if you use something
even like open source, right. And, um, you go to get hub and you look how many people commit,
how many people make commits to the tool. So if you see is that the rate of commitment
is draw is dropping, that's a red flag. So, um, generally when we use any open source package,
for example, right. Um, we monitor that metric. How often people commit. So if somebody didn't
commit, let's say there's a package and somebody didn't commit for a year. Okay. We know that
thing is in trouble. Maybe the maintainer died. Nobody, nobody's interested. So something is,
is up there. So we did a general investigate. Um, if it's not open source, if it's proprietary,
is the way we look at it is, um, how often vendors deliver releases.
And if this releases our maintenance releases or they bring up innovation features. So usually,
uh, market leaders deliver releases every quarter.
And with those releases, the, the, the healthy company will, um, will deliver a mix of new
features and maintenance. Right. So is it just going to maintenance, uh, let's, you know, for six
months, a year, that's a red flag. Um, you know, so going to customer conferences and talking to
companies, right. Also, uh, can show you, right. There's a number of customers increasing or
decreasing. You can just look how many people come to conference, um, technology upgrades.
Right. So, um, I'm not going to give you a name, but we had a vendor for 10 years. So he,
he was bought by a bigger vendor and the bigger vendor, um,
just stopped, uh, upgrading underlying compilers. They were using the same compiler.
So compilers actually, I would say every year there's a release from GC, let's say GCC compiler
every year there's a release. So if the vendor is relying on the product and the compiler
and, uh, they just stop upgrading the compiler and you see that, okay, two, three years, same compiler.
That's a red flag. So just even not even, uh, if the underlying technology doesn't change at all.
So we kind of get worried and, uh, you know, maybe underlying engineering team is shrinking
or maybe the company just wants to use. So usually what you see product dying in the marketplace
when somebody buys it, right. And they just want to use as a product for, um, you know,
just a cashflow, right. And they just run it until cashflow, you know, until customer are paying.
So that is a place where we don't want to be.
And, you know, it's hard to, to actually predict when somebody, somebody is going to buy somebody.
So this has happened all the time. So tomorrow opposite could be bought by, by a bigger company.
Right. Um, that's okay. So, but what we would be worried if, you know, our studio releases
would slow down in the frequency. I think that would be, we're a public benefit corporation.
Corporation. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I mean, okay. So open AI is also public benefit corporation,
but nonetheless, Microsoft invested $10 billion. Um, and you know, people are leaving open AI.
So like, okay. So there's some, some, some concerns there, right. Um,
there are actually, there's a lot of thoughts starting to come in the chat around this topic.
So I want to make sure that people can jump into and, and Chris, I see you had to ask something
about exceptions. Do you want to jump in? Yeah. Is my mic working properly?
Yeah. Okay, cool. I w I was wondering earlier on, you had mentioned about, um, you know,
the rate and frequency of, you know, like GitHub commits. Are there any, are there any,
as that's a general, are there any exceptions to that? Is there,
is there anything out there that behaves like perhaps stably, um, or doesn't really have like
a constant, um, you know, update what I'm curious I'm thinking of, and I have no data on this,
but I'm thinking of like spark itself. I'm, I'm wondering, like, does something like that,
um, you know, perhaps have a slow burn in terms of commit rate or not. I was curious if you have
any insight on that. Yeah. So spark is one of the main tools that we monitor very, very actively.
Um, and we actually have commercial version of it. So data bricks, um,
so yeah, so the spark has, I would say over 200 commuters and those commuters are not individual
people. They're companies. Uh, so usually what you see is that if you, if you look at the,
you know, where the people are working on, you see major companies, you see Intel, you see Apple,
you see Microsoft, you see IBM, uh, Databricks is obviously, um, dominates, but, um,
those companies are not, uh, uh, you know, basically what usually when you see commuters
like that, that means commuters are using open source internal, right? They're using open source
internally, they're running internally, they're running operations, and they're making changes
based on a, on a feedback, right? If they were like, like, just like users, okay, maybe users
will make some suggestions to the vendors like IBM or Databricks, but users probably will not
make changes, right? To the product like that. Uh, but the companies, the people who make changes
means they really, really thinking about cost, right? How do you make things more efficiently?
How do I add more features? And that's a good thing. That means that, that is thriving, right?
So, so for example, um, um, recently we saw there was like two major releases went very quickly
within, I would say, uh, a year. There was a three, four and three, five versions.
And, uh, we generally look at the, at the discussions that people have on a, on a public Jira
because it really gives you insight into what's coming, right? So usually if you go to the vendors,
a commercial vendors, when you say what's coming and say, oh, it's a secret, you know,
well, if it's, if it's, if you back by public source, right? And people committing to it,
it's not a secret what's coming down the line. You can see it, uh, in the discussions,
if you summarize discussions, if you summarize, uh, you know, if you look at Jira comments that
people make, you can actually see where things are going. Um, so like, I think, uh, recently
there's a big change in the Spark where, uh, you know, Databricks stopped supporting Spark R and
they switched to, to Posit Sparkly, Posit now official partner. Uh, that change was not announced
publicly until like Databricks, uh, AI conference in June this year. But if you read the Jira
comments carefully, you would see that coming very clearly. And, uh, we, we, and we did source it,
like I would say in February, March, we already knew this is what's going to happen.
Even before they publicly announced, uh, this, this change. Um, so I guess congratulations
to Posit, uh, for quickly picking up the Slack, but I think from perspective of, uh, again, I think
it's one of the advantages using open source with a commercial support. Uh, you can actually see
what's happening. You can see what's happening with the products, where is it going?
You can look at developing branches, right? Before they make it to the main branches
and you can see the future. So that's, uh, uh, gives you ability to plan, right? So
one of the things for us is ability to plan forward. We like to plan for a long time
and we don't like surprises. Uh, you know, so that's important for us to be able to monitor,
um, uh, open source ecosystem and see what's happening on this food and where things are
moving towards. Wow. Thank you. Um, I actually wanted to share here because in the, the hangout
with Chris Engelhardt at Jenry, there was a conversation in the chat about, um, people
wishing that they could publish pins to Databricks, I believe. And like, since that hangout, I know
this PR has been merged on, uh, GitHub. So I just wanted to share that here. If anybody was
looking for that and I miss them in a LinkedIn message.
Uh, there is a Databricks user group meeting, I think next week, and I'll be giving a talk there
as well. Oh, awesome. And so downtown Boston. That's in Boston. Yeah. Okay, cool. Um,
Libby, I do want to pull in someone in for the next question. I would love to, we have, um,
a question that's actually asked with an asterisk by it. So I'm going to read it. Um, it may need
some extra context, but I'm gonna do my best. So the question was, wouldn't the amount of bugs
open slash closed be a more direct, um, metric on quality. So a good package may not need many
new commits, but new issues shouldn't be compiling. And with not many bugs, maintainer responsiveness
would sound key. I mean, if you have too many bugs to begin with, that's a red flag by itself,
in my opinion, you know, um, and yeah, the responsiveness of maintainers, I think is
important because we, one of the reasons we, you know, we, we like commercial support because
we can ask vendors, but if the vendors don't respond, then you go ask, you know, public for
support. Um, and so we can measure directly as a maintainer responsiveness, what the community is
even there to begin with. All right. So, um, the last thing we want to do is to, sometimes you have
to roll things, um, you have to roll the sleeves and fix things yourself. So like I give you
example, we, we, I have a post about this on the link and you can look it up. A link chain
is extremely popular framework for doing, um, you know, AI applications, and they have
so many, so many chains, which is basically integrations between LLM and other technologies.
So example, they have, you know, um, link chain between, you know, Postgres database and, um,
and, you know, OpenAI. So you can use OpenAI and Postgres database together,
but if they ask, you know, the function of the system, so singular system. Now, when you start
using the stuff like that, uh, in your application, and let's say using LLM to generate SQL,
what you find is a lot of stuff is, um, is not really tested or working as you expect,
you know, a hundred percent of the time. So when you, you go to commercial setting,
you know, people generally expect things to work, right. A hundred percent reliably.
So if you advocate for, for, you know, things which are kind of really not working fully,
it may end up with you. You may have to be responsible and doing the fixes.
Um, you know, so in that particular case, we, we've been looking, okay,
can we define a set of sub sub modules that we can fix ourselves, um, and deliver them back to
the community? So that's a part, part, part of that game that, you know, if you use open source
and people don't respond, um, you have to go and fix it yourself. I think that's
you being the software engineer, you stop being a user, you start being active participant.
Um, so we, we, we actually participate in the general ecosystem.
Uh, we've been heavily testing, uh, this, this database called Chroma. I don't know if
any of you are familiar. That's, um, basically a free library for doing embeddings on your PC.
And it's basically allows users to prototype, uh, embeddings, um, you know, without having GPU,
you can just use CPU, but it's, it's, it's pretty buggy. Um, there's lots of bugs, uh,
especially, you know, in the windows, uh, environment, maybe Linux, Linux is they're
doing a lot, lot of testing, but maybe windows less. So we, we, we do testing, we contribute,
we understand that open source community, people don't always have time to test and
different scenarios, different combinations, operating systems, and so on and so forth.
So the value is that sometimes you have to roll up your sleeves, right? So, um,
and just don't sink yourself. Yeah. And I think, yeah.
Oh, sorry. I know I have just about 10 minutes and I see a few other questions. So I want to
make sure I get to those as well. And Mauro, would you want to jump in here next with your question?
Sure. Yeah. I, I noticed that you mentioned that it's really hard to get out of about technology,
uh, because some or many users might, might like it. So my, my question is if you have any advice
to avoid people getting into, you know, a technology that you already identify as not
being a good candidate, or if you're already stuck in there, if there's any advice that you
can get people out of that technology without, uh, I don't know, hurting people, how do you even do
it? Like how do you have that conversation? I think, um, like the way we look at technology,
right, for us, the first and most important thing is usability, right? So if you see something
that's not usable, that's probably the first thing indicates you do not, don't go there. Okay.
Um, usable means, uh, you know, easy to learn, easy to, to test, easy to maintain, right? So
entry, right? So if it's expensive, like, yeah, it's expensive, you know, it's, it's better be,
you know, worth the money. So I think they, and you think that way, right? So
we invested a lot of effort into R and R is not really, you know, easy to use. It doesn't
have a built-in debugger, for example. So when you're trying to debug something and let's say
you don't have RStudio, you, and you have a pressure, right? You have, you know, operational
pressure to fix a problem. You could be in a hell of a lot of trouble because of that.
Um, the other thing is that when you look at community size, sheer community size,
right? So again, compare R to Python. If you look at, um, a number of packages that is on Py,
on PyP, I think it's Python is PyP, close to 700,000 packages.
And you look at the number of packages on CRAN, 37.
So it's not even order of magnitude. It's, it's almost tourism magnitude,
right? So, so when, when there is a big community behind something,
I think it kind of indicates to you where the market is going to go. So if you pick up something
that's kind of an edge, um, you, you know, you may find yourself with something that's
slowly dying over time. It's not, and it's not productive, right? Um, I think one of the reasons
we, we pick Databricks because, uh, the community is so active around Spark, right? And, and our main,
main business is data science. So Databricks for us, it's, it's a platform for all things,
data science, right? So the way we look at it, you know, okay, if you're doing, uh, you know,
operational reporting, maybe you better off with not Databricks, but maybe Oracle or,
or, you know, Snowflake or some other vendors. But if you're doing analytics on a, you know,
on a big scale, um, you know, that is platform for you. So I'm not trying to sell Databricks or
anything, but just example, right? So how's, um, how we think about, you know, the technology has
to feed for what you're doing, right? Um, and so there's all those aspects, okay. Cost and, uh,
usability and maintainability and whether that's going to enhance your, your personally,
you know, market skills, all this stuff. Um, but at the end, what matters was, uh,
the product you choose, it gives you ROI, right? So, um, that's actually a very hard thing to,
to, to live up to when you use something, does it gives you ROI for what you invested or not?
Right. Um, I think, uh, you need to think of it from, from, from that perspective,
what is my long-term ROI? Um, I know. Oh, sorry. You go ahead. Sorry. Yeah.
Do you have anything you want to add on the, the ROI piece?
Yeah, I'm just, I was just thinking of a good example. So again, just personal anecdote, but
uh, I really used to like, uh, you know, um, Android phones because they were very, very cheap,
right. And, um, and the open source and all this stuff. And then eventually at some point,
I actually switched to iPhone. And so if you, I found, you know, it's expensive,
um, closed system, right. And it has lots of disadvantages. However, what you look at iPhone
that keeps the value, right. It gives a value, you know, and if you look at the long-term,
let's say five years, what you will see is that Apple is doing releases. Every quarter is doing
releases, maintenance releases. And once a year they do feature release, right.
And if you look at Android, what you will see is that number of releases that deliver new features
is actually much smaller. So that is ROI, keeping the value and keeping up with, uh, you know,
feature maintenance, you know, feature release, feature delivery.
And, you know, I'm so surprised that even old iPhones continue to keep value,
where if you get like Android, Samsung, which cost exactly the same as iPhone,
the values is, you know, initial value cost of buying it is very close. But over time you will
see decline is much steeper, uh, in resale value. So that's, that's telling you something,
right. That's telling you how the companies take, what's attitude towards the product,
long-term product maintenance. So I just wanted to share real quickly, um, Isabella shared a link
to a blog post in the chat, which actually came from a, a data science hangout specifically on
this communicating ROI of data science projects. So I just wanted to make sure people saw that
there in the chat, but also just one more question, um, Saul had asked earlier and I had missed it,
but it was from your point of view, what skill do you think is worth getting deep into when it comes
to learning and what impact have you seen the skill have, or what impact do you believe it will
have? And I can copy it back into the chat again, because it was way up there.
So I think, again, this is my personal opinion, so it's not an official anything.
Um, when I, I, when I was in a PhD program at WPI, uh, they have this class called concrete
mathematics. And I was like, okay, what's, what's, what's concrete mathematics? Isn't mathematics
is abstract by definition. And it turned out to be is that what they're giving us is, is just, um,
a large set of problems. Uh, and they expected us to solve it. Uh, it was very broad set of
problems, right? And they expected us to solve them. Um, and I think to me is that was really
core, core skills that I learned from entire PhD program is that, you know, your strengths is not
in one particular thing. Your strengths is, is actually trying, you know, solving different
problems as many as you can. Um, and basically that is allowing you to build up, uh, you know,
your technical skill. So, and so like when I'm teaching classes at BU, we solve a problem from
Kaggle, which is main competition website. Uh, we solve problem from, um, ArcPuzzle, which is
another main competition website. Actually, if you've never heard of ArcPuzzle, uh, I highly
recommend it's a $1 million price competition where they give you, uh, I think about 500 puzzles.
And what they do is they expect you to solve the puzzles in a way that's generic.
Um, so that's actually very interesting because people say, oh, uh, like LLM can solve all the
puzzles. And that is not true because LLM cannot solve all the puzzles, uh, because LLM can only
solve the puzzles that other people already solved. So if you never seen the puzzle, the chances of
LLM solving it, uh, relatively low. So actually it's very interesting to be, to, to, to try this
ArcChallenge. So I'm out of 400. I'm, I've just done 25 and just basically it's, it's not that
complicated, uh, puzzle, but when you're trying to think a bit, okay, how do I do it generically?
Uh, you know, not just solve specific puzzles, puzzles in a specific way, but how do we do
this generically? That's actually very, you understand it's a very difficult problem.
So my recommendation, you want to get better, you do problems that's a hard,
even if you don't solve them and you fail, you still learn something. Okay. So, um, and then,
you know, if you get really disappointed, you can go solve a little simpler problem
and kind of give yourself a little, um, little reward. So for me personally, okay,
solving 25 puzzles on ArcChallenge, yeah, that really, that works you out, you know?
Uh, so, uh, Kaggle too. So Kaggle, Kaggle is, um, is a great site where they have competitions
from different industries, right? And it allows you to really do a lot of machine learning,
right? So you join the team or you form the team or you, that's, that's purely, purely machine
learning. So, um, ArcPrize is, um, is, is more towards AI. So I, I, I try to do problems from
different domain, some problems from just pure, pure mathematics, some problem, you know, pure,
um, uh, statistics, some problem with machine learning, some problem from AI. So I kind of
try to get all around it in the data science because it's such a big area. Um, and, uh, you
know, obviously infrastructure too. So you, Amazon, Amazon classes give you, um, plenty of,
uh, puzzles too, if you, if you're into that. So I know we have just about like 10 seconds
left here, but I was, I know you mentioned you're speaking in person and in Boston next week. And I
was just wanting to make sure if that link I just shared is the right event for the Databricks,
you know, or if you have it handy. Um, but I just want to say thank you so much Stanislav for,
for joining us and thank you all for joining us at the Hangout today. If you want to join us again
next week, Joel Ash is going to be joining us. Joel is a senior data science manager at Kraft
Heinz. Um, and so he'll be chatting about what it's like to work in the CPG industry and the
challenges of a zero to one at a mature company and how to be heard instead of just listened to.
And so me reaching out to Joel was actually inspired by somebody saying, Hey, I would love
to hear from more people in the CPG consumer packaged goods industry. So also if you have
suggestions of voices and industries and people you'd like to hear from as well, please let me
know. Thank you all so much. And Stanislav, was that the right link? Uh, yes, it is. Yeah.
Okay. Awesome. Well, thank you again. Thank you. Have a great rest of the day, everybody.